# WebAgents CG: Regular Meeting (Oct. 17, 2024)

## Agenda
   * Introduction
       * Introduction of new participants (if any)
       * Review minutes from the previous meeting
       * General CG updates
   * Review of Task Forces
       * Manageable Affordances Task Force
       * Use Cases Task Force
   * Open discussion
       * Use Cases: Healthcare

## Participants
   * Rem Collier
   * Andrei Ciortea
   * Berk Buzcu
   * Alexandru Sorici
   * Andrei Olaru
   * Gabriel Lopes
   * Julian Padget

**Scribe**: Rem \& Andrei

**Notes from previous meeting**: [https://github.com/w3c-cg/webagents/blob/main/Meetings/RegularMeetings/2024-09-30.md](https://github.com/w3c-cg/webagents/blob/main/Meetings/RegularMeetings/2024-09-30.md)


## Meeting Notes

BB: Working with JP on healthcare. working on edge devices to capture sensor data combined with knowledge graphs to provide decision support services for therapists. but can also give feedback to patients.

MS: Co-Chair of Accessibility for Children CG. Interested in Use Cases for Children in Healthcare.

RC:  Last Meeting minutes will be reviewed at the next meeting

RC: Updates on Task Forces

AC: Gatherered Scenarios from CG.  Soliciting Requirements at the moment. Will re-initiate the TF soon,

RC: Start of the Healthcare UC Discussion

JP:  Short presentation of Agents fo Rehabilitation (SmartEdge? project)

JP: Application of swarm based approaches to managing body area networks to monitor rehabilitation exercises (full presentation).

RC: Questions?

JP: How closely do you match the skeleton structure against the exercise? Precision?

JP: Head/neck exercises are quite simple so low precision is good enough. Knee/hip exercises will be harder - more degrees of freedom.

AS: Missed question...

JP: Answer
   
RC: Where is the WebAgents CG valuable?

JP: Matching of use case needs to devices?

RC: Will set up a Use Cases Template Document start to complete a section of Healthcare / Rehabilitation

AS: Remote Health Monitoring Presentation

JP gave a short verbal presentation about two healthcare related pieces of prior work:

1. A proposal (unsuccessful) to Ambient Assisted Living that considered elderly care in the community as a socio-technical system, comprising formal carers, informal carers, medical team and the individual themselves. The proposal focussed on the use of a range of sensors to detect information about the individual's living space and their actions, on the one hand and on the formal representation of policy (as a representation mechanism for care patheways, but also for any other relevant policies) as governance/oversight mechanisms for the realisation of a STS supported by software agents. A new perspective and opportunity comes from more recent work on the engineering of value-alignment into socio-technical systems to capture stakeholder requirements with respect to values and how those can be (partially) captured, aggregated and measured to observe the continuous alignment of system behaviour with original and evolving stakeholder expectations.

2. Healthy Sleep. A PhD project that uses multiple sensors and a combination of rules-based and ML model-based interpretation of data to advise a subject how to affect the 15 literature-identified sleep levers. Different people respond differently to the various sleep levers so it is a matter of finding out which works for them. Objective data on sleep is captured through 4 devices: Dreem headset (no longer available), a consumer grade EEG device that provides identification of total sleep time, slow wave sleep and REM sleep; Oura ring, a consumer health monitoring device that provides data on heart rate, time in bed and other metrics depending on the generation of the device (we used Gen 2); a bespoke environment monitor for the bedroom to capture lux, temperature and decibels; Lys lux monitor to wear during day time. The rules encode expert advice on what levers offer the greatest opportunity for improvement, while the ML model is trained on data captured from the sensors also to identify the greatest opportunities. Participants receive a daily summary of their sleep profile and suggestions about what to change.
