# WebAgents CG: Regular Meeting (Dec. 12, 2024)

## Agenda
   * Introduction
       * Introduction of new participants (if any)
       * Review minutes from the previous meeting
       * General CG updates
   * Review of Task Forces
       * Manageable Affordances Task Force
       * Use Cases Task Force
       * Interoperability Task Force
   * Open discussion: Evolution, Self-Organization, and Cognitive Stigmergy
       * Content input: Jean-Paul Calbimonte, Andrei Ciortea, Samuele Burattini, and Julian Padget

## Participants
   * Andrei Ciortea
   * Samuele Burattini
   * Danai Vachtsevanou
   * Jean-Paul Calbimonte
   * Andrei Olaru
   * Rem Collier
   * Julian Padget
   * Jérémy Lemée
   * Ali Nadar
   * Stephen Cranefield
   * Simon Mayer

**Regrets**: Alessandro Ricci

**Scribe**: Samuele é Jérémy

**Notes from previous meeting (WoT Week 2024)**: see PR 68: [https://github.com/w3c-cg/webagents/pull/68](https://github.com/w3c-cg/webagents/pull/68)



## Meeting Notes

Ali Nadar: New participant from Eurecom working on autonomous vehicles

### **WoT Week report**

Last meeting was Hybrid at WoT Week. 

Reviewing meeting notes on the pull request, main topics:

- Some gaps on the JSON-LD representation of TDs to be fully compatible with RDF. In general we recommend extending TDs with additional semantics, but most WoT users are not doing that and treat it as a JSON instead of relying on the underlying RDF. Keeping JSON processing is a strong requirement! The more "semantic TD" users the better to surface potential issues, this group can help with that.

- Please check the take-away message from WoT week on our previous meeting notes and in the WoT group:

    - [https://github.com/w3c/wot/tree/main/PRESENTATIONS/2024-11-wot-week/Plugfest-Outcomes](https://github.com/w3c/wot/tree/main/PRESENTATIONS/2024-11-wot-week/Plugfest-Outcomes)

    - [https://github.com/w3c/wot-testing/tree/main/events/2024.11.Munich/StandardizationTests#outcomes](https://github.com/w3c/wot-testing/tree/main/events/2024.11.Munich/StandardizationTests#outcomes)

    - [https://www.w3.org/2024/11/28-wot-minutes.html](https://www.w3.org/2024/11/28-wot-minutes.html)

    - [https://www.w3.org/2024/11/29-wot-minutes.html](https://www.w3.org/2024/11/29-wot-minutes.html)

- People want to do more plugfests! We can envision stronger participation of this group for future editions

### Task force updates

Andrei: New Task Force is going to start soon on interoperability between web-based MAS. Examples: jade-hypermedia, Yggdrasil, MAMS. This TF would be broader in scope than other TFs. 

The idea is to analyze similarities and differences in approaches.

### Cognitive stigmergy and Self-Organization

#### **Jean-Paul Calbimonte: Self-Organization**

In the context of the SMARTEDGE european project, the goal is to have swarms of intelligent applications running on different (cyber-physical) nodes and orchestrate them.  Some nodes can take the role of coordinators. TDs are used by the project to describe capabilities of nodes.

Low-code developers creating flows, these are converted in to "recipes" which are matched to the needed nodes and then the app is deployed and orchestrated.

Presentation of a video for self-organizing wearables positioned on a human body. 

**Questions/Comments:**

Andrei: Use of self organization for embedded devices

Danai: Details on implementation for the wearables. What are the capabilities? Right now they are very simple i.e. what kind of rotation the sensors are capable of measuring. The position on the body is not part of the capabilities right now.

#### Andrei Ciortea: Cognitive Stigmergy

Concept of Cognitive Stigmergy introduced by Alessandro Ricci et al.

Stigmergy = coordinated work through the environment. The term was first used in the study of termites, another well-known example are ant colonies, where ants deposit and follow pheromone trails to find the shortest path between a food source and their nest.

Alessandro's insights: in the context of MAS, stigmergy usually assumes simple agents (reflexive agents) and simple environment processes (e.g., pheromone decay). However, this does not need to be the case.

Cognitive Stigmergy applies stigmergy for cognitive (e.g., BDI) agents in the context of the Agents \& Artifacts meta-model. In this model, artifacts are the enablers for stigmergy. Workspaces capture locality in the environment. Cognitive stigmergy uses annotations instead of pheromones. These annotations can be created intentionally (by agents) or unintentionally (by agents or artifacts).

Stigmergy on the web are trails of other users presence and interactions (product reviews, youtube views, likes, etc.). These can be either intentionally left by other agents or just simply tracked by the environment. Different stigmergic mechanisms are typically implemented as well (difussion, aggregation, ordering, selection, etc.).

Disinformation use case: The Web provides global immediate access to very diverse information, but this information is also unfiltered. Assessing the credibility of onling information is a hard problem. Automated fact-checking can scale but lacks accurracy, manual fact-checking is accurate but lacks scale. Can we bring the best of both worlds? Web annotations are a W3C standard that enables transparency at source on the open Web. People are already using those. We also have fact-checking workflows defined by jurnalistic associations, e.g. see [EU Fact Check](https://eufactcheck.eu/). What's missing: organizations of people and artificial agents that we can deploy to tackle disinformation on the Web at scale.

Questions: 

Andrei Olaru: are you proposing to have an organizational structure so that annotations are trusted? 

   *     This is more about defining workflows of what annotations are required.

Andrei Olaru: can you really achieve emerging behaviour in very large open systems where agents have no "common goal", you have unbalanced parties and large factions of actors.

   * This is where the workflow comes to help, as it defines the overall workflow that needs to go forward. But indeed lots of open challenges, e.g. related to trust.


#### Samuele Burattini: Embodiment and Behaviour-Implicit Communication

Recent work presented at EUMAS conference. It has links with cognitive stigmergy and Agents \& Artifacts meta-model. In digital environments, they are usually situated but not embodied. An agent is embodied if it can be perceived by other agents. Web pages (e.g.,  a GitHub user page on slide) can be seen as embodiments for humans on the Web.

CArtAgO, an implementation of the  Agents \& Artifacts meta-model, has agent body artifacts to locate agents in workspaces.

Digital embodiments makes agents discoverable, accountable, enables communication through behavior, and situation-dependent interaction.

Demo: embodied agents in manufacturing. Shared workspace on the Yggdrasil platform. When an agent joins a workspace, a body artifact is created for them. A manager agent can perceive the bodies of the other agents in the workspace in order to monitor them.

An agent body on Yggdrasil provides a TD that indicates affordances on how to communicate with the agents.

In the demo, two agents: Bob and Alice performs a task with robots. They are monitored by Carl. Bob does a bad job and Carl tell him so.


#### Julian Padget: Actions, norms, and norm revisions

An action description language (ADL) describes actions. Such languages have been developed in 1990s by Gelfond and Lifschitz. 

ADL are described by a Kripke structure, similar to a (finite) state machines.

INSTAL is an action language for modelling institutions. It is based on deontic logic. Actions can be characterized as obliged, permitted, or forbidden. The deontic correctness of sequences of actions can be checked.

The implementation uses a Python front-end, INSTAL is converted to Answer Set Programming, then solved by clingo.

Models should be able to be revised over time. This can be done using inductive logic programming. 



## Comments

Andrei: Link with Samuele's presentation. INSTAL could be used on top of bodies. There is a tension between the openness of the Web and the development of coordination mechanisms. 

    

** Ideas for follow-up meeting**: building institutions on the Web and Embodiment. Proposition of making 2 dedicated meetings of 2 hours each after the new year.

Jérémy: Proposition of another thread, besides institutions, on cognitive stigmergy + embodiment.

Andrei: Conclusion of the meeting and wishes for holidays season.




