
# WebAgents CG: Regular Meeting (Feb. 15, 2024)



## Agenda

   * Introduction
       * Introduction of new participants (if any)
       * Review minutes from the previous meeting
       * General CG updates
   * Review of Task Forces
       * Task Force Proposal: Socio-technical Networks (Antoine Zimmerann)
       * Use Cases Task Force
       * Manageable Affordances Task Force
   * Open discussion
       * Scenarios for Manageable Affordances


## Participants

**Scribe:** Jérémy Lemée

**Attending:**

   * Katharine Beaumont
   * Samuele Burattini
   * Andrei Ciortea
   * Rem Collier
   * Stephen Cranefield
   * Nicoletta Fornara
   * Nesrine Hafiene
   * Eoin Hobson-O'Neill
   * Patrick Hochstenbach
   * Sabrina Kirrane
   * Jérémy Lemée
   * Simon Mayer
   * Gustavo Nardin
   * Julian Padget
   * Ganesh Ramanathan
   * Alessandro Ricci
   * Wout Slabbinck
   * Iwona Sokalska
   * Yousouf Taghzouti
   * Danai Vachtsevanou
   * Dina Vinter
   * Antoine Zimmermann


## Meeting Notes

### **Introduction New participants**

Introduction Ganesh Ramanathan: Member of Siemens

Introduction Yousouf Taghzouti (not a new participant): PhD student at Mines Saint-Etienne. Made a visit to the group in St. Gallen where he was introduced to Web agents.

### **Use cases and scenarios overview**

 Use Case TF description: [https://github.com/w3c-cg/webagents/tree/main/TaskForces/UseCases](https://github.com/w3c-cg/webagents/tree/main/TaskForces/UseCases)

 Issue template for use cases: [https://github.com/w3c-cg/webagents/blob/main/.github/ISSUE\_TEMPLATE/use\_case.md](https://github.com/w3c-cg/webagents/blob/main/.github/ISSUE\_TEMPLATE/use\_case.md)

 In the previous meeting, we discuss use cases and scenarios for Manageable Affordances.

 Use cases are more full-fledged than scenarios but some scenarios could be turned into use cases.

 Antoine Zimmermann: Use case template available on GitHub.

Rem Collier: Help is needed for the Use Case group.

 Antoine: Decisions for use cases will made offline but some decision may be made during a meeting if needed.

 Andrei: Curated use cases that represent the full community group are needed.  

### **New task force proposal: Socio-technical network**

 Antoine: Artificial agents should be integrated within socio-technical networks involving also humans. In this context, agents will interact with humans.

 Iwona: Are TFs derived from use cases? How are they related?

 Antoine: The Use Case TF should be in contact with all other TFs to relate UCs with all TFs.

 Rem: There will be a continuing discussion about UCs and their relations to TFs.

 Poll in the chat to determine interest in the proposed TF. The TF received a lot of support (8 out of 20 participants).

### **Manageable Affordances:**

Rem presents a scenario: Manageable Actions in ML Pipelines ([https://github.com/w3c-cg/webagents/issues/24)](https://github.com/w3c-cg/webagents/issues/24))

Samuele asks questions on the scenario.

Julian is interested to contribute.

Patrick presents: decentralized scholarly communication ([https://github.com/w3c-cg/webagents/issues/25)](https://github.com/w3c-cg/webagents/issues/25)). Agents help support the management of workflows in the decentralized Web applied to scholarly communication. Workflows may take days or months in this context.

Rem suggests that this scenario could also become a use case.

Jérémy asks about clarification between the technical components and social context.

Patrick: Decentralization is already happening but each community has its own ways of doing things. There is no standardized solution. Web agents could provide such a standardized solution.

Ganesh presents a scenario: Actions in Automation Systems ([https://github.com/w3c-cg/webagents/issues/26)](https://github.com/w3c-cg/webagents/issues/26))

Andrei expresses interest in the scenario (including separation of layers, lifecycle). Samuele also expresses interest in the scenario (especially the lifecycle dimension).

Ganesh explains his second scenario: Events in Automation Systems ([https://github.com/w3c-cg/webagents/issues/28)](https://github.com/w3c-cg/webagents/issues/28))

Danai presents a scenario: Manufacturing Environments ([https://github.com/w3c-cg/webagents/issues/27)](https://github.com/w3c-cg/webagents/issues/27)).  One long-running action (does not take weeks, but cannot be considered instantaneous) is considered: moving a robotic arm. The progress, completion status, and state of the environment are monitored. The affordances of the robotic arm  are not enough to do the monitoring of the robotic arm and therefore other affordances, provided by another device (Activity and Object Recognition service), are needed.  For safety purposes, a proximity service is used to determine whether the robotic arm can move without harming a human.

Andrei mentions distilling a structured set of requirements and makes an initial proposal to start the discussion (see below). The Manageable Affordances TF should define and agree on a way to elicit requirements. We will open a Pull Request for this purpose.

Andrei: An initial proposal for narrowing down the requirements for (where applicable):

- types of affordances: (...)

- affordance life cycle (e.g., pausing, stopping, reverting):  (...)

- information conveyed about the affordance or related affordances:  (...)

- communication protocols: (...)

- representation formats: (...)

- security and privacy considerations: (...)

- other: (...)



Jérémy: Since requirements may be similar for different scenarios, should the members of the different scenarios work together?

Andrei: All the members of the TF should work together. The discussion should start within the different scenarios at first but collaboration will (and shall) emerge. A document will be written to explain the output of the TF.

        



        



        



    

    

        



        



        



    
