# WebAgents CG: Regular Meeting (Dec. 19, 2025)

## Agenda

   * Introduction
       * Introduction of new participants (if any)
       * Review minutes from the previous meeting
       * General CG updates
   * Updates on Interop Report
   * Open discussion: A benchmark for Web agents?

Interop Report Draft at (version for this discussion):

[https://deploy-preview-107--w3cwebagentscg.netlify.app/](https://deploy-preview-107--w3cwebagentscg.netlify.app/)

## Participants

   * Andrei Ciortea
   * Danai Vachtsevanou
   * Rem Collier
   * Andrei Coman 
   * Jeremy Lemee
   * Jean-Paul Calbimonte
   * Terry Payne
   * Julian Padget
   * Paola Di Maio

## Regrets

   * Antoine Zimmermann

**Scribe**: Danai Vachtsevanou

**Notes from previous meetings**:

[https://github.com/w3c-cg/webagents/pull/108](https://github.com/w3c-cg/webagents/pull/108)

## Meeting Notes

#### Introduction of new participants:



Andrei Coman:

- Postdoctoral Researcher at HES-SO Valais-Wallis

- Previously PhD Student at Idiap and EPFL and Applied Scientist at Amazon

- Website: [https://andreiccoman.github.io](https://andreiccoman.github.io)

- Thesis: Text-Graph Encoders and Retrieval-Augmented Generation

   * - Text form: [https://infoscience.epfl.ch/entities/publication/84fa2f0d-2f23-49d2-916b-316a71c932d0](https://infoscience.epfl.ch/entities/publication/84fa2f0d-2f23-49d2-916b-316a71c932d0)
   * - Video form: [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f3RX\_DJRGTI](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f3RX\_DJRGTI)
    

Paula Di Maio: [Chair of AI KR CG  [https://www.w3.org/groups/cg/aikr/](https://www.w3.org/groups/cg/aikr/), where we are having overlapping discussions with several CGs [https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-aikr/2025Dec/0032.html](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-aikr/2025Dec/0032.html)   Here now seeking a) good practices in running CGs, b)  to connect with related groups, c) to cross reference and share work being done.  I came aross this CG when searching for references on agent interoperability and found a draft report. I have since started drafting some resources synthesizing different views, and would like to share my drafts with this CG as soon as it is presentable. I'll request a quick slot to present as soon as I can articulate the work I am doing. To comment after Andrei's overview of the report, the points I made were roughly that 1. representation is key *capturing core dimensions to identify interoperability issues because standards and protocols will continue to evolve very fast, while high-level dimensionsality is more persistent 2. I have compiled a list of agent dimensions from literature, will be happy to share them but wonder what view other people take, what dimensions that represent agents can everyone   2, must locate a copy of FIPA  3, report is huge! 4, regarding the benchmarching I suggested that llms are very dynamic so the benchmarking can be fiddly because models change, however within a well define task model with narrow parameters some benchmarking can be feasible and useful



DV: Announcing the 14th Workshop on Engineering Multi-Agent Systems (hosted at International Conference on Autonomous Agents and Multi-Agent Systems([https://w3id.org/emas/2026/)](https://w3id.org/emas/2026/)). 

#### General updates:

AC: Announcing that the Call for Workshop of the ISWC 2026 conference is coming soon.

AC: Announcing the Web \& AI Interest Group: [https://www.w3.org/groups/ig/webai/](https://www.w3.org/groups/ig/webai/)

#### Interoperability Report:

[Re-cap by AC of the report's purpose for new participants. See here for the report's draft: [https://w3c-cg.github.io/webagents/TaskForces/Interoperability/Reports/report-interoperability.html](https://w3c-cg.github.io/webagents/TaskForces/Interoperability/Reports/report-interoperability.html)]

Currently, under development

   * Section 3.4 (by JL)
   * Section 4 (by AC)
   * Section 5 (by DV)
   * Section 7 (by RC)
   * Section 8 (by OG)

Suggested structure for Sections 4-11:

   * We take a top-down view based on the system requirements introduced in Section 3. We see what is needed in relation to the section's topic in order to address the set requirements
   * Then, we take a bottom-up view: We summarize how relevant approaches address the Section's topic
   * In the Discussion subsection, we integrate the two views.
   * See AC's draft on Identification as an example: [https://deploy-preview-107--w3cwebagentscg.netlify.app/#discussion](https://deploy-preview-107--w3cwebagentscg.netlify.app/#discussion)

*AC discusses the report draft on Identification*

JL: On the FIPA identifiers: There is not necessarily a contradiction between FIPA agent names and IRIs. It should be possible to define a URI scheme for FIPA. Therefore, the integration of FIPA would satisfy principle 1: Uniform resource space. The problem here seems less that it is not possible, but not worth the effort.

AC: Points out that there may be different approaches to ensure interoperability. However, we should look at how many constraints a proposed approach imposes, as well as what has been so far the adoption level of its elements (e.g., in industry and literature). 

PDM: Comments that the report may become quite dense or long. 

AC: Indeed. We decided on this format, but it is a "living" report and sections are meant to be self-contained, so updates and refinements may be added gradually. Maybe we could add a primer with a concise version of the report, or an intro that suggests how to navigate the report. It is important that newcomers do not feel overwhelmed.

PDM: She has encountered questions similar to the ones presented in the report in other discussions. However, she discusses that a more detailed representation and taxonomy of agents may be needed, as addressed in her work and here: [https://arxiv.org/html/2508.12683v1](https://arxiv.org/html/2508.12683v1)  [Unfortunately, PDM's internet connection was not very good, but the core points are synthesized by PDM above]

AC: Given that PDM's internet connection was not very good, AC proposes that we devote a regular meeting so that PDM presents relevant work in more detail. 

AS: Comments on the scope of A2A identification (w.r.t. the scope of the report). Mentions that the scope of A2A is to enable identification within a specific domain and ecosystem, instead of across domains.

AC: Agrees. Also, points out that A2A identification methods do have some elements that hint towards the intention of identifying agents across organizations (e.g., provider information).

#### Benchmark for Web Agents: 

Goal: To allow us to incrementally test agents (including their reasoning, planning, interaction, etc.)

Example benchmarks for different types of agents in different environments:

- lastexam.ai for an existing benchmark for LLMs

- webarena.dev

- WebShop

OG: Points on the similarity of agents that relate to a benchmark (e.g. LLM agents). Therefore, points out that it will be hard to provide a benchmark for all agent types, but we could focus on the main requirements [of Section 3]

HKG: Is interested in the report

AComan: Points to ARC-AGI [https://arcprize.org/arc-agi](https://arcprize.org/arc-agi) as an existing benchmark, and stresses that the benchmark should adequately challenge existing approaches and have precautions against reverse-engineering and over-fitting. 

AC: Agrees and adds that careful consideration of the selected metrics will be needed. Additionally, the benchmark should not only address language agents. 

PDM: LLMs will produce completely different outputs based on updates on their internal model (she's currently performing tests on this), so they may perform differently each time. 
