# WebAgents CG: Regular Meeting (Mar. 24, 2025)

## Agenda

   * Introduction
       * Introduction of new participants (if any)
       * Review minutes from the previous meeting
       * General CG updates
   * Quick review of TFs
   * Open discussion
       * Interoperabillity

## Participants

   * Rem Collier (chair)
   * Katharine Beaumont (scribe)
   * Ege Korkan
   * Jérémy Lemée
   * Andrei Olaru
   * Julian Padget
   * Antoine Zimmermann
   
## Regrets

   * Andrei Ciortea

**Scribe**: Katharine Beaumont

Notes from previous meeting: [https://github.com/w3c-cg/webagents/blob/main/Meetings/RegularMeetings/2025-03-14/minutes.md](https://github.com/w3c-cg/webagents/blob/main/Meetings/RegularMeetings/2025-03-14/minutes.md)

No objection to accept the minutes.

## Meeting Notes

### Introduction

#### New participants

No new participants.

#### Review of minutes

The last few meetings were good and well attended. 

#### General CG updates

No general updates.

### Task forces

#### Manageable affordances

No updates

#### Use cases

No updates

### Discussion

The plan is to talk about the interoperability task force. We've seen 3 presentations on a range of topics, Agent Network Protocol, LDOR, LMOS last week. All 3 presentations were developing infrastructure to support LLM-based systems but we can generalise learning from them vis-a-vis interoperability. 

Discussion around this document:

[https://docs.google.com/document/d/1tB43s9eJ0AAcQEGbjr07MhBs59pUo79WmXljzmgu\_VM/edit?usp=sharing](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1tB43s9eJ0AAcQEGbjr07MhBs59pUo79WmXljzmgu\_VM/edit?usp=sharing)

Rem: I'd like to start a discussion today on what the interoperability task force should look at. The interoperability task force (ITF) has five proposed areas of activity:

  * Agent Identification
  * Agent profiles
  * Agent discovery
  * Agent communication (protocols, etc)
  * Agent interaction (use of protocols and lower-level mechanisms to co-ordinate, co-operate etc)

Andrei: What is the difference between communication and interaction here?

Rem: Communication in terms of lower level protocols, channels, routing of messages. Agora (another platform) is looking at how to agree on a communication channel to allow LLMs to communicate. On top of that, the forms of communication on top of protocols form the interaction. For example FIPA-ACL. This is also drawing from the WOT community: Thing Descriptions (higher level models of interactions) and the lower level mechanisms.

Ege: Interaction could include coordination and cooperation in the terminology to be clear.

Rem: An agreed set of terminology to describe these things would be a good outcome [of the discussion].

#### Agent identification

We've talked in the past about FIPA-ACL, they would have used the idea of agent identifiers; a combination of a name, a set of aliases, a set of addresses you could use to interact, with HTTP as a transport service model. The addresses could be a list of URLs with different type of interactions (HTTP URL, an e-mail address, any other type of identifier to specify a way of communicating).  Agents could use these to work out how to talk to each other. They also had the idea of resolvers. These would combine to form the agent identification. 

Julian: Are you thinking here to revive what FIPA were doing? Or is this contextualisation? The requirements we had then are probably very different from the requirements we have now.

Rem: This is for context around identification and examples of previous work. Some of the work we've been doing with Web agents recently use URLs as a means of identifying agents. On platforms we've seen things like DIDs. Part of the work in this group will be to look at previous work, and current requirements. We may need a range of potential solutions, depending on the context of the agents, how trusted the environment is, etc cetera.

Julian: The first two are fine in an intra-operational environment, but across authentication /some kind of boundaries, something more verifiable may be required. We might need identifiers for specified periods of time (5 minutes, a day) and associate periods of validity. 

Antoine: Suggestion to add WebIDs, a subset of URIs with additional things for authentication: the identifier is a URI but this must be dereferenceable.

Andrei:  I wanted to add two issues. One is concerning identifying other things in an agent system, the other is should we ask whether we should think about things like instances that respond to the same identifier, such as load balancers, network infrastructure (replicated services).

Ege: It would be good to include a paragraph summary with examples [for each of the proposed areas of activity in the document].

Rem: [link to previous discussions around Interoperability] 

[https://github.com/w3c-cg/webagents/tree/main/TaskForces/Interoperability](https://github.com/w3c-cg/webagents/tree/main/TaskForces/Interoperability)

... The list of five things is a slight expansion of this.

... Profiles, we saw a lot of these in presentations. It could be capability descriptions, the ANP presentation used OpenAPI as a way of describing these. With LMOS we saw the use of Thing Descriptions as a way of describing an agent. We've seen Yggdrasil ...

Jérémy: This work [Concept of Agent profiles, agent identifiers in Yggdrasil] isn't yet fully integrated. Our model for agent profiles and artifact profiles is described here: [https://www.southampton.ac.uk/~eg/AAMAS2023/pdfs/p1200.pdf](https://www.southampton.ac.uk/~eg/AAMAS2023/pdfs/p1200.pdf)

Rem: Do we have any other examples? For me the work on ANP was tightly coupled to LLM solutions. Is that flexibility (OpenAPI-type descriptions) something that would work with non-LLM systems.

Ege: [Provides the example of a JSON payload the Anthropic team are using]

Rem: For me one of the issues is what should a profile contain? The identifiers would make sense, is it capabilities? For BDI agents it might be goals, profiles. It might be capabilities like service descriptions. 

Ege: For me, the question is what shouldn't it contain? Should the ID be dereference to the profile? Is the ID of the profile the ID of the agent? Does it have multiple profiles? 

Antoine: Instead of asking what it should not contain, I don't think we can really exclude anything, but the question may be what is absolutely necessary that you must provide.

Ege: Maybe we could look at what the other examples contain. I think this will be the most difficult question [what the profile must contain].

Rem: The discovery section is next, should the profile contain social aspects? E.g. hypermedia overlays. 

Andrei: Perhaps temporal information, maybe some capabilities are available only in certain time frames. The profile of the same agent may not be static.

Rem: Social profiles, is there a social media mechanism for agents where they can post information, et cetera. The acquiantances. 

Ege: Social profiles for me is more about discovery. Regarding temporal information, perhaps the profile is dynamic and changes day-to-day.

Andrei: For me it's whether the profile is limited in time, or capabilities are limited in time.

Rem: Next is agent discovery. [Talk around examples] I looked at this from the perspective of the Web of Things, there are a number of ways we've discovered things in MAS. In FIPA there were registry services, from the Web of Things local vs global discovery were considered. There are different possible models. The idea of social networks and hypermedia overlays, using hypermedia links to connect things together, to explore / discover new agents. So not just managed interoperability with formal infrastructure but the possibility for agents to discover other agents informally, with the element of serendipity. There is a FIPA standard (the FIPA yellow pages service). 

... They all provide different levels of granularity [previous examples including FIPA Yellow Pages, Eureka, etc].

... Other examples from the Web of Things, are indexing mechanisms, that sort of service discovery. 

[Talk around issues] 

Julian: [Question from Zoom chat on dereferenceable is the id a form or URL, and is there a resource with that information at the end of it?] 

Ege: Should the ID contain information? 

Julian: The ID should not contain information, but an expiry date should be considered.

Andrei:  Issues include replication / synchronization issues 

Ege: Basically it is about ids containing any information or not?

Antoine: in Web, ids are uris. In the web the ids can contain information, like protocol. But URIs are opaque in their role as identifiers. 

Julian: What does the user of the id expect from the id?

Antoine: It is difficult to remember URLs generally.

Julian: with DOIs, I don't remember the structure, e.g. spring is probably something 10... . If as a human I am. 

Rem: Humans vs Agents changes the thinking on this. 

Julian: A human readable version can be dereferenced. 

Antoine: this is a nice discussion point

Rem: We will bring the other topics to another meeting.
