
# WebAgents CG: Regular Meeting (Feb. 24, 2025)

## Agenda

* Introduction
   * Introduction of new participants (if any)
   * Review minutes from the previous meeting
   * General CG updates
* Quick review of TFs
* Presentation:
   * Joshua Cornejo
* Open discussion

## Participants

   * Ege Korkan (chair)
   * Antoine Zimmermann (scribe)
   * Joshua Cornejo
   * Arthur Casals
   * Alexandru Sorici
   * Anastasiya Danilenka
   * Danai Vachtsevanou
   * Jean-Paul Calbimonte
   * Rui Zhao
   * Terry Payne
   * Rem Collier
   * Andrei Olaru

## Regrets

   * Andrei Ciortea

**Scribe**: Antoine Zimmermann

Notes from previous meeting: TBD

## Meeting Notes

### Presentation

Joshua is our presenter today

**Presentation title:** Wall-E wants to do what? Future authorisation challenges with agents

> The presentation is recorded

EK: We will continue the recording for the Q\&A.

> nobody objects

EK:  Where are you stuck and what do you plan to do?

JS: ?

EK: do you have something open source or available that you can share?

JS: We have something using DCAT + there are things related to the pricing + other things but not everthing available open source

EK: related to the last before last slide - what about the delegate agent at the bottom?

JS: ?

RZ: There seems to be a consensus on the tuple actor action asset, but on e.g. ODRL there's lot more

JS: actor is somewhat like agent, action like purpose

JS showing the archiecture in one diagram

RZ: 2nd question: what if there are 2 agents, where a user inform the 1st agent and another inform the second?

JS: agents are not like processes

DV: What do you use for going from JSON to RDF and vice versa?

JS: use C# where there is a .NET library for RDF. The objects that I load are quite simple.... showing code in C#

EK: lots of potential here, we'd like to be kept updated
