# WebAgents CG: Regular Meeting (June 6, 2025)

## Agenda

   * Introduction
       * Introduction of new participants (if any)
       * Review minutes from the previous meeting
       * General CG updates
   * Quick review of TFs
   * Open discussion 
       * Interoperability TF: continue the discussion on the key areas of activity of the TF

## Participants

   * Antoine Zimmermann (scribe)
   * Andrei Ciortea (chair)
   * Jérémy Lemée
   * Danai Vachtsevanou
   * Terry Payne
   * Ege Korkan
   * Andrei Olaru
   * Luis Gustavo Nardin
   * Soheil Roshankish
   * Arthur Casals
   * Simon Mayer
   * Habtom Kahsay Gidey
   * Alessandro Giugno
   * Jean-Paul Calbimonte
   * Julian Padget

## Regrets

   * Rem Collier

**Scribe**: Antoine Zimmermann

Notes from previous meeting: [https://github.com/w3c-cg/webagents/blob/main/Meetings/RegularMeetings/2025-05-19.md](https://github.com/w3c-cg/webagents/blob/main/Meetings/RegularMeetings/2025-05-19.md)

## Meeting Notes

Introduction of new member

Habtom: PhD student at the Technical University of Munich, Germany

Alessandro Giugno: PhD student at Univ. St-Gallen (same group as Andrei C.), working on agents

Review of minutes - approved

- Was focused on Interoperability Task Force, agreement on scope + structure, first tasks

- Comparison table discussion, perhaps that is a good starting point (even though auto-generated)

- positioning wrt AI Agent Protocol Community Group

*General updates*

HyperAgents 2025 workshop in Bologna. Deadline approaching (16 June). Please submit your contributions: [https://ecai2025.hyperagents.org/](https://ecai2025.hyperagents.org/)

We will organise a CG meeting there.

W3C would like to organise a workshop on AI Agents. Relation with the Web, what are the standardisation efforts, etc. Workshop proposal is available at [https://github.com/w3c/strategy/issues/507](https://github.com/w3c/strategy/issues/507)

Question relating to whether this is an academic workshop. The actual goal of the workshop should be discussed. The hype is high and there are many initiatives, so should be about interoperabilty.

The report should be ready before the workshop. Not clear what the date will be.

Task Forces:

- Manageable Affordances: Some standardization work has started in the WoT WG: [https://github.com/w3c/wot-thing-description/pull/2107](https://github.com/w3c/wot-thing-description/pull/2107) 

- Use Case: new UC on shopping agent [https://github.com/w3c-cg/webagents/issues/83](https://github.com/w3c-cg/webagents/issues/83). Could also relate to the interoperability TF.

Also, additional issue related to ODRL (from the ODRL group): [https://github.com/w3c/odrl/issues/112](https://github.com/w3c/odrl/issues/112).


Other news:

Gustavo Nardin is organising a Summer School that relate to Web Agents (22nd-26th July). The programme combines Web of Things, Knowledge Graphs, Multi-agent systems, ttrustworthy AI. This year, we integrate LLMs. A hackathon runs throughout the week on an industrial use case.

[https://ci.mines-stetienne.fr/ai4industry/2025/](https://ci.mines-stetienne.fr/ai4industry/2025/)

*Open Discussion:*

Link to Interoperability TF Report: [https://w3c-cg.github.io/webagents/TaskForces/Interoperability/Reports/report-interoperability.html](https://w3c-cg.github.io/webagents/TaskForces/Interoperability/Reports/report-interoperability.html)

Andrei O.: relating to credentials, is it really in the main scope of the report? What kinds of interactions we intend to review? Discuss the connections between credentials, authentication, authorisation.

Andrei C.: currently there are 2 sections, 1 relating to credentials, 1 relating to privacy. It is a good question if we should merge these sections, but I think we can better answer it as the report evolves. Verifiable Credentials could be an essential component at the conceptual level.

The relevant section can be renamed Verifiable credentials

Updates to the report:

- section 2.1 Visions of Agents on the Web filled. Please send feedback (by email, via issues, or contributing directly via PRs). The 3 main paragraphs are discussing these.

- comparison table of existing approaches added, inspired by what Joshua submitted by email in Sec. 2.2

   - one distinction is in terms of scope; the current table does not include frameworks and libraries for developing language agents, but only initiatives relevant to distributions of MAS across the Web

   - we could have a summary of all libraries for programming webagents that we keep updated in a living document

Arthur suggests having a section to what's not in scope

Andrei O.: re. libraries, we should limit the scope because there are too many things to review

Andrei. C.: we could keep it minimal to make it manageable (someone submits a simple pull request). We could have a repo just reporting the tooling. We just want to keep the information in some place we can point to.

Andrei O.: put a definition of what a Web agent is (according to the CG), early in the report. Move up the terminology.

Andrei C.: we can move it up and we will put hyperlinks to the definitions throughout the document

Terry: We could move the terminology up, but we need a discussion of what is a Web agent, while the terminology has concise definitions, and introduce lots of other terms that can overload the presentation

Simon: agreed with Terry and a definition of agents could be in intro to Sec.2.

Agreement to keep the terminology where it is for now, and we will review this point as the report evolves.

Comments on the criterias (table columns):

- Relevant Concepts: list of important concepts with, when appropriate, links to spec

- Agent Interaction: often point to point, we want support of multi-agent interactions. The column indicates what in place to support this

- Tool Use

- Identifiers: identification mechanism (URIs/IRIs, DIDs, etc.)

- Descriptions: how entities are described

- Discovery: discovery mechanisms

- Arch. Style: architectural style, not always easy to identify

Soheil: there should be a hyperlink on the name of the protocol. Also some links for LMOS are broken.

Andrei C.: The LMOS website was down this morning, it might be temporary

Andrei O.: this table could become a central part of the report. There is correspondance between columns and sections of the report. Maybe we could make it even more aligned section name <-> column name. E.g. Tool use is in a general section called "Agent-Environment interaction"

We could discuss how different protocols define what an agent is, as opposed to how our CG define it.

There should be sufficient description of each protocol such that when the links won't work anymore, it can still be understood what they were about.

The table could be formatted wider than the main body of text.

Also, there could be a column for norms.

Regarding tool use, there could be a description of what tools can be used.

Andrei C.: the table is mainly in support of the SotA section.

Andrei O: That would be great to have a written guidline on how to contribute to the report. 

Andrei C.: So far, we sent the guidelines by email, but we will post them on github as well. As the report evolves, it will become easier to contribute.