# WebAgents CG: Regular Meeting (Oct. 6, 2025)

## Agenda

   * Introduction
       * Introduction of new participants (if any)
       * Review minutes from the previous meeting
       * General CG updates
   * Review of Task Forces
   * Open discussion: Interop Report

Draft at: [https://deploy-preview-92--w3cwebagentscg.netlify.app/](https://deploy-preview-92--w3cwebagentscg.netlify.app/)

## Participants

   * Andrei Ciortea
   * Önder Gürcan
   * Rem Collier
   * Ege Korkan
   * Vincent Scheib
   * Arthur Casals
   * Andrei Olaru
   * Geon Son
   * Terry Payne


## Regrets

   * none

**Scribe**: Antoine Zimmermann

**Notes from previous meeting**: 

[https://github.com/w3c-cg/webagents/pull/97](https://github.com/w3c-cg/webagents/pull/97)

## Meeting Notes

Geon: From Korea. Working in Line, messenger company in Japan. Interested in AI Agent developments. Not building something with them.

Vincent: From Chrome Team. APIs for the browser environment. Interested in the agentic space

Andrei: (explains the usage of the repo like minutes and reports)

### ECAI Workshop

Andrei: There will be a hybrid event on October 25. Colocated with ECAI. The workshop is in-person only.

Ogurcan: There are overlaps between the Hyperagents and EMAS so there are some issues with attracting people.

Andrei: Agree. We can approach TSC.

### Interop Report

[https://w3c-cg.github.io/webagents/TaskForces/Interoperability/Reports/report-interoperability.html](https://w3c-cg.github.io/webagents/TaskForces/Interoperability/Reports/report-interoperability.html)

Andrei: This has a broader scope than agentic AI. We have spent time on terminology in a way that addresses multiple communities' scopes.

Andrei: (explains the vision chapter of the report)

Andrei: (explains the conceptual dimensions section)

Andrei: Now the architectural considerations section is the main focus. We are inspired by the DID specification and want to have design considerations and a formal architectural diagram.

Andrei: I propose looking at the Danny Weyns, Architecture-Based Design of Multi-Agent Systems, 2010.

Andrei: We can do the work today on the draw.io I am showing. First, I took the diagram from the reference above.

Ege: I think we should try to map specific examples to this diagram.

Andrei: That would be the goal. (gives examples how MCP fits here or how TDs fit)

Ogurcan: (missed your point while thinking about the diagram!)

Andrei: We can also give examples of W3C standards that fit to the diagram, like websub and linked data notifications to sense part of the diagram

Andrei: Would a TD directory be a storage of the environment

Ege: Some part of it yes. There are more resources in the environment though.

Rem: TD is an abstraction of the interfaces for me

Andrei: But that would be exactly that here.

(missed something here)

Terry: What is the state meant here? The perception of the environment?

Andrei: The diagram has sync component, which could be used to sync with the deployment context or to sync between nodes.

Terry: The state is not entirely observed by an agent though

Ogurcan: Do we model the robot arm as the agent or just the arm of the agent.

Andrei: That is a modeling question for me. If the interactions with the arm itself are not exposed, then it is out of scope.

Rem: We can say that these are private resources.

Ogurcan: (...)

Andrei: The report will be unopinionated. The goal is not to expose design decisions on implementations.

### Next Meeting

Andrei: We will be traveling during the next meeting, so we can cancel it. Let's discuss how to use the time in the workshop.

Andrei: We have 4 responses so far. Will Terry join?

Terry: Yes 

Andrei: Ege will be remote. Some participants from the HyperAgents 2025 workshop will be there as well. There should be enough mass.

Andrei: Do you think we should split the discussion into groups or stay together to stay aligned?

Ogurcan: If there are too many people, we can split. Otherwise no need.

Terry: the two concepts are quite similar. I don't think we should split. 

Rem: We should resend the link. 

Ege: It would be good to have a result that can be presented in TPAC. 

Andrei: Our slot is on Monday.

Adjourned