# WebAgents CG: Regular Meeting (Nov. 21, 2025)

## Agenda

   * Introduction
       * Introduction of new participants (if any)
       * Review minutes from the previous meeting
       * General CG updates
   * Updates from TPAC 2025
   * Open Discussion: Interop Report
       * Section 3.3: Architectural Considerations
       * Review Sections 4-11

Interop Report Draft at: [https://w3c-cg.github.io/webagents/TaskForces/Interoperability/Reports/report-interoperability.html](https://w3c-cg.github.io/webagents/TaskForces/Interoperability/Reports/report-interoperability.html) 

## Participants

   * Andrei Ciortea
   * Rem Collier
   * Danai Vachtsevanou
   * Antoine Zimmermann
   * Julian Padget
   * Önder Gürcan
   * Stephen Cranefield
   * Ege Korkan
   * Jérémy Lemée
   * Habtom Kahsay Gidey
   * Alexandru Sorici

## Regrets

   * none

**Scribe**: Rem

**Notes from previous meetings**: 

   * Last regular meeting [https://github.com/w3c-cg/webagents/pull/100](https://github.com/w3c-cg/webagents/pull/100)
   * TPAC 2025: [https://github.com/w3c-cg/webagents/pull/101](https://github.com/w3c-cg/webagents/pull/101)


## Meeting Notes

[AC] Lot to discuss. No new participants so we can dive right in.

[AC] At the last regular meeting, there was mainly a discussion of design goals.  We have had a push since then on section 3 and now have a new draft.

[AC] Merging meeting notes.

[AC] Good discussion at the TPAC - quite a lot of attendees, room was too small.  Lots of interest and new participants.

[AC] One of the main points raised was a lack of discussion around Ethics and Ethical Considerations.  There is also a comment from FG in the pull request.

[AC] Any other update from the TPAC EK?

[EK] Room was more than full. Many breakout sessions on Agentic Web / Security models / LLM browsers. Anything with Agent on it had a lot of interest.

[EK] Some provided feedback that the fact we are thinking about the role of the web first is different to many other efforts.

[AC] Opened the slide deck and is providing a brief overview.

[AC] Continuing to discuss the slides and what was presented in the TPAC meeting.

Link to current draft of report: [https://deploy-preview-105--w3cwebagentscg.netlify.app/](https://deploy-preview-105--w3cwebagentscg.netlify.app/)

[AC] Asks Stephen to jump into the discussion on Value alignment

[SC] Honesty is a difficult to test design goal.

[AC] Discussing FGs comment on the report: [https://github.com/w3c-cg/webagents/issues/102](https://github.com/w3c-cg/webagents/issues/102)

[SM] This could become a black hole for discussion - suggests removing part of the definition.

[OG] We need social scientists if we are to explore this...

[JP] There is a lot of activity in this space, we should acknowledge it, but would be better referrencing the activities of others rather than tackling it ourselves (Julian mentioned a number of initiatives that I was not able to write down in time). Standardisation activities at CEN in support of the AI Act (which covers all the areas identified by Fabien's note) are addressing these issues, so a first step would be to plan to examine, with an intention to adopt, those and similar (international, non-European) standards. For example, the Quality Management System (QMS) is near Working Draft status - this is a meta-standard that points at other standards to be used to establish presumption of conformity - as is the Risk Assessment standard. Other standards of varying relevance, e.g., Data set quality and governance, Bias management, Trustworthiness, Robustness and accuracy, Logging, Computer Vision, are planned for completion by the end of 2Q2026.

[HKG] Would love to say that having the agent only align with the user is restrictive because there can be cases where the users values are not aligned with societies values and in that case, the agents can be defending those norms. We cannot just leave it to the user.

[AS] As a compromise, leave the part about human values aside but keep the normative side in the definition.

[JP - chat] or align with system goals or with other participants in the STS. Norms are not only about interaction (events), but also about the state of the STS.

[SC] Wonders whether the scope of the CG is to cover how to build the agents or how understand how to assist the developers of the agents in supporting value alignment.

[AC] Summarising: agrees with the main points made in the meeting, but also arguing to keep it because we need to consider how this design goal influences interoperability, transparency, and other aspects.

[RC] I would agree with ACs view - mention it but not get caught up in the detail.

[SM] human values is too challenging a term that is not well defined.

[JP] recommends stakeholder values as an alternative.

[AC] Agrees and has changed definition to reflect this.

[OG] We have not defined end user / stakeholder in the terminology section.

[JP] Can provide definitions

[AC] There is a tradeoff between how large the terminology becomes and the use of terms.

[OG] Anyone can be an end user - whose values should the agent follow?

[AC] From Web Agents definition - a browser is typically used by a web user?

[AC] will try to clarify what is meant by stakeholder in the text.

[AC] Moving on to system level design goals - these are more straight forwards as they have been discussed in previous meetings

[AC] want to shift focus to DV who will talk about Agent Profiles.

[AC] These section will talk about specific aspects of interoperability and highlight gaps in standards.

[AC] AC working on 4 and 6, DV on section 5 and RC on section 6.

[DV] Showing section 5 from document. Main idea is to present a topic and connect the topic to the system level design objectives. Define what profiles are. Explain the functional scope of profiles. Explain how these can support system level design goals.

[AC] The idea is to build on section 3 - e.g. a design goal is discoverability so we need profiles to understand what has been discovered.

[DV] Section 5.1.1 reviews approaches to agent profiles and the next section reviews approaches to tool profiles.

A sample table is provided to illustrate the structure (not final content). Rows are approaches, columns are features?

[DV] Issue 17 descibes the columns: for each column there is a definition,  examples for each relevant approach.

[DV] Discussion section (5.2) to consider gaps in approaches, and commonalities.

[AC] For each section - start with top-down approach identify requirements from system / agent level design goals. Next look at relevant standards and initiiatives - bottom-up approach, the specific structure will depend on the actual topic.  The discussion brings together the top-down and bottom-up perspectives to identify commonalities and gaps. Possibly highlight things that are considered practically but are not motivated by the agent / system design goals.

[AZ] Wondering whether the term profiles is sufficiently clear - perhaps need to clarify it. There are several usages of the term in the W3C literature (e.g. WoT profiles: [https://www.w3.org/TR/wot-profile/)](https://www.w3.org/TR/wot-profile/)) .  A document states that a profile is a named set of constraints on one or more identified base specifications necessary to accomplish a particular function.

[AC] Definitely need to define and add to the terminology - it remains to be discussed whether profile is the best term.
