# WebAgents CG: Regular Meeting (July 4, 2025)

## Agenda

   * Introduction
       * Introduction of new participants (if any)
       * Review minutes from the previous meeting
       * General CG updates
           * TPAC 2025: [https://github.com/w3c/tpac2025-meetings/issues/81](https://github.com/w3c/tpac2025-meetings/issues/81)
   * Quick review of TFs
   * Open discussion 
       * Interoperability TF: continue the discussion of the TF report

## Participants

   * Andrei Ciortea
   * Simon Mayer
   * Jérémy Lemée
   * Stephen Cranefield
   * Jean-Paul Calbimonte
   * Alexandru Sorici
   * Raza NAQVI
   * Arthur Casals

## Regrets

   * Antoine Zimmermann
   * Ege Korkan

**Scribe**: Simon Mayer

**Notes from previous meeting**: [https://github.com/w3c-cg/webagents/blob/main/Meetings/RegularMeetings/2025-06-16.md](https://github.com/w3c-cg/webagents/blob/main/Meetings/RegularMeetings/2025-06-16.md)

## Meeting Notes

Review Minutes from Previous Meeting

* Many initiatives that start bottom-up; missing is a conceptual overview of how things fit together. It is not so easy to see how the different initiatives overlap or complement each other. Hence the Interoperability Report ( [https://w3c-cg.github.io/webagents/TaskForces/Interoperability/Reports/report-interoperability.html)](https://w3c-cg.github.io/webagents/TaskForces/Interoperability/Reports/report-interoperability.html)) shall:

   * Provide a conceptual framework for Web-based multi-agent systems to evaluate information on complementarity and overlap

   * Discuss pertinent standards within and outside the W3C, and identify standardization gaps

* Andrei has done a lot of work on the Interoperability Report  - challenge will be to keep this broad/abstract enough. Please come and contribute your thoughts!

* TPAC: Only few people gave feedback on their participation. Ege will be at the TPAC, four more are interested in participating online

* We expect good discussions at HyperAgents 2025 at ECAI (October 25-30, 2025, Bologna): [https://ecai2025.hyperagents.org/](https://ecai2025.hyperagents.org/)

Task Force Updates

* Manageable Affordances

   * Thank you Jean-Paul and Stephen and others for your contributions!

   * Joint discussion with WoT WG on July 23rd at 4pm CEST on the scenarios (private Zoom link); details to be announced on the mailing list

   * This joint discussion should also yield gaps in the scenarios and define the scope of the WG and CG: What can we transfer to the WoT WG and what is their focus?

* Interoperability

   * Andrei has added a terminology section. The idea is not to reinvent foundational definitions such as "agent"

   * The definitions should capture the main aspects of the terms, but still be understandable to people outside of the MAS community

   * We discuss the terms

      * Agent

         * Essential are situatedness and reactiveness, goal-dreicted decision making (proactiveness), balancing of reactive and proactive behavior, and long-livedness. Anthropic is clear on its definitions, good - for instance, a notion of situatedness is visible in their definition of an autonomous agent acting on an environment to obtain "ground truth".

         * "Autonomy should be explained (Arthur). Andrei considers that our (Castelfranchi-based) understanding of autonomy is very abstract (autonomy ~ freedom) which might conflict with the perspective of the target audience of the document (autonomy ~ automaticity). Andrei considers that we'd still need to bite the bullet. Stephen concurs that this should be at least hinted at. Simon agrees.

         * Simon considers that two more hooks, (1) for proactive/reactive behavior and (2) for long-livedness should also be added to the statement while staying concise, to provide newcomers with the right pointers.

         * Arthur considers that negative scope should be explained as well: what are we not talking about?

    * Agent Interaction Protocol

         * Interactions among multiple parties (> 2) is underexplored. Perhaps should add it to the table

         * Stephen considers that Roles should be visible in the definition. 

         * Jean-Paul considers that discovery should be mentioned. Perhaps as additional terminology?

         * Alexandru considers that the "how" should be mentioned as well. Andrei considers what the "how" is about: message representation or internal reasoning process (the second would be out of scope). 

    * Artifact or Tool

   *    * The MAS research notion is inspired by the A\&A metamodel, which draws from activity theory. We're putting artifact on the same level as a tool. 
   *    * It should be clarified that "resource" refers to a Web resource as defined in the W3C recommendation for the Web Architecture
   *    * In MAS research, agents can also instrument their own environments with tools; classically this is done by instantiating artifact templates (see JaCaMo), but agents might generate their own tools (i.e., write software themselves)
   *    * Andrei considers whether to include also the Thing Model (as defined in the W3C WoT) under this definition. People are favorable
   *    * Alexandru considers whether we should constrain (?) artifacts more, whether an artifact that can only be read and written (a "document") is actually an "artifact" - or a "tool"; Simon makes a case for instrumenting environments with documents, and reading/writing text as important modalities
        * Andrei considers whether "Artifacts" and "Tools" need to be split ("A document is an artifact, but maybe not a tool, for example, as defined in A\&A"). Simon considers that documents are clearly tools for him.

    * MAS

       * Andrei considers that this definition currently misses governance but would also like to keep the definition concise.

       * Stephen is positive on the definition but considers the definition should include a distinguishing between "open" and "closed" MAS

   * We continue with discussing Section 3.3

      * Stephen considers whether MAS "have a design objective." Discussion on whether MAS have a design objective. Adding "..implicit or explicit.." design objective to resolve.

      * We agree that it is important to name the four dimensions in the sense of a separation of concerns. Andrei argues that it is important to differentiate between Agent-to-Agent interaction (e.g., Google A2A) and Agent-to-Environment interaction (e.g., MCP). It will be important that we understand which of these protocols is solving which problem on what dimension. 

      * Andrei considers that we may use Fig 2 to place the different protocols/approaches (in the sense of a separation of concerns) and map them to different aspects/problems (e.g., profiles/A2A agent cards; well-known URIs; etc.). This is tricky, but would be valuable. Simon suggests to have multiple figures for illustration of different approaches, to be considered.

We adjourn at 10:13
