# WebAgents CG: Regular Meeting (May 22, 2026)

## Agenda

   * Introduction
       * Introduction of new participants (if any)
       * Review minutes from the previous meeting
       * General CG updates
   * Interop Report
       * Rem Collier: Discovery Section
       * [https://github.com/w3c-cg/webagents/blob/tf-interop-discovery/TaskForces/Interoperability/Reports/report-interoperability.html](https://github.com/w3c-cg/webagents/blob/tf-interop-discovery/TaskForces/Interoperability/Reports/report-interoperability.html)
   * AOB


## Participants

   * Rem Collier
   * Andrei Ciortea
   * Antoine Zimmermann
   * Terry Payne
   * Jérémy Lemée
   * Ege Korkan
   * Julian Padget

**Scribe:** Antoine Zimmermann and Andrei Ciortea

**Notes from Previous Meetings:**

[https://github.com/w3c-cg/webagents/pull/123](https://github.com/w3c-cg/webagents/pull/123)

## Meeting Notes

Previous meeting notes are for meeting on 24 April 2026 and can be merged.

### General updates

EK: TPAC 2026 meeting in Dublin 26-30 Oct. 2026

### Interop report

RC: I will now present the updates on Section 7 from the interoperability report on discovery mechanisms.

RC: Discovery typically implies some form of registry that stores information about agents, tools, and services. These rely on descriptions, so I linked back to the Profiles section.

RC: Registries can be centralized or decentralized. There is typically some notion of locality.

RC: A relevant W3C specification is the WoT Discovery recommendation. It discusses several methods, e.g., well-known URIs, link following, etc.

RC: I noticed there is replicated text across the document. I tried not to replicate text. We might need to see how not to duplicate content, as content can be spread across multiple sections.

RC: In A2A, there are 3 discovery mechanisms: direct configuration, well-known URIs, and curated registries. Two examples of the latter were included in the report.

EK: What does the registry allow in terms of searching?

RC: [shows A2A Registry as an example] Most registries provide some form of search functionality, but it's not always clear what form it takes.

RC: ANP distinguishes between active and passive discovery. Active discovery is based on an agent descriptions document using JSON-LD that returns a list of agents under a given domain (different from A2A). Passive discovery is when agents submit their descriptions to other agents, typically search service agents  that then use the ANP Agent Discovery Service Protocol.

RC: Existing approaches don't typically use links and hypermedia-based discovery. For example, for ANP, the agent descriptions documents are not used as part of some discovery mechanism.

AC: It could be interesting to reach out to ANP and see if hypermedia-based discovery was considered.

RC: LMOS is using the WoT Discovery mechanisms.

RC: FIPA is using an agent discovery service [details not taken in the notes].

RC: Next, we move to tool discovery. In MCP, there is a tools/list method that can retrieve the list of tools on a server. A number of approaches have been considered for tool discovery on top of MCP: well-known URL for mcp.json to expose a list of MCP servers, MCP Registry, and SDK-style clients.

RC: This is where I got so far.

[open discussion on where to consider other types of resources that could be discovered or retrieved, e.g. skills]

TP: Should we discuss more about content and representations?

RC: ANP and LMOS use JSON-LD, so there is RDF under the scenes. But in general, it is just JSON documents.

EK: I looked at the A2A Registry, and I also see data about trust and health. These registries also have their own advantages or selling points.
