
# WebAgents CG: Regular Meeting (June 1, 2026)



## Agenda

   * Introduction
       * Introduction of new participants (if any)
       * Review minutes from the previous meeting
       * General CG updates
   * Accountability
       * Roberto Micalizio: Accountability and Multiagent Organizations (from Concepts to Software Engineering)
       * **[moved to a future meeting due to time constraints]** Andrei Ciortea and Stephen Cranefield: Towards Operationalizing Accountability for Self-Improving Multi-Agent Systems Short Demo Session


#### Participants

   * Andrei Ciortea
   * Stephen Cranefield
   * Roberto Micalizio
   * Antoine Zimmermann
   * Andrei Olaru
   * Matteo Baldoni
   * Elisa Marengo
   * Eric Drury
   * Dirk Schnelle-Walka
   * Terry Payne
   * Alessandro Giugno
   * Habtom Kahsay Gidey
   * Max Ilyin
   * Iris Johnson


**Scribe**: Antoine Zimmermann



**Notes from Previous Meetings**:

[https://github.com/w3c-cg/webagents/pull/124](https://github.com/w3c-cg/webagents/pull/124)



## Meeting Notes



#### New member presentation:

   * Matteo Baldoni (not really new but long time since last participation), University of Turin, work on Multi-agent systems
   * Roberto Micalizio will present later in the meeting


#### Previous meeting notes

no objection, can be merged



#### CG news

Poll will be made for the upcoming TPAC in October, which will happen in Dublin (annual W3C in-person/hybrid meeting for all working groups and CGs)



#### Accountability

Presentation by Roberto Micalizio (University of Turin).

Title: Accountability and Multiagent Organizations (from Concepts to Software Engineering)

Presentation slides will be shared.



#### Q\&A

Andrei Olaru: agents have goals for account taking and account giving. Where is it specified to whom an account taker requests giving an account? Is there a way to specify who has the authority to ask for an account?



Roberto: this kind of relationship is specified at design time in terms of roles. When a single agent plays a given role, there is no ambiguity. But sometimes, there must be the participation of many agents. In some cases, we want to get accounts from different role players.



Matteo: the spec of who can ask is specified in the MOISE structure along with the structural decomposition of the goal.



Andrei O.: what happens if multiple agents are given roles?



Matteo: we stick to the specification of JaCaMo, it works the same in accountability. E.g., if it is specified "at least 1" or "at most N", etc. then follow what the JaCaMo spec says. What we modified is the interpretation of the new construct, e.g., notification of policy, the goal to perform a request, the goal to take account, treat account, etc. There is no mechanism for the coordination of multiple [missing bits]



Andrei O.: how to handle failures on the agent side?



Matteo: we implement exception handling. The account giver is not necessarily the one who performs the task that is accounted for. Another agent can report an account. It is the programmer who must provide the means to monitor these. Accountability exceptions are at the level of the organisation, not at the agent execution level. What we added to the agent is a few primitives allowing it to [missed the actual explanation]. A mechanism allows to resume the execution after a situation of exception. 



Andrei C.: did you already think about applying this accountability mechanism to commitment protocols?



Matteo: some years ago we introduced commitment in JaCaMo, and it could be very interesting to join accountability and commitment support. They have a natural connection. Our work is inspired by the work on commitment.



Andrei C.: one thing we did not get to mention is that here we interepret accountability as different from liability, we must distinguish them



Andrei C.: we had planned a second presentation, but we are out of time. We will schedule it for a future meeting.




