# WebAgents CG: Regular Meeting (Jan. 16, 2026)

## Agenda

   * Introduction
       * Wishing you the best for 2026!
       * Introduction of new participants (if any)
       * Review minutes from the previous meeting
       * General CG updates
   * Plans for 2026
   * Updates on Interop Report
       * Identification
       * Profiles

Interop Report - Latest editor's draft: 

[https://deploy-preview-107--w3cwebagentscg.netlify.app/](https://deploy-preview-107--w3cwebagentscg.netlify.app/)

## Participants

   * Andrei Ciortea
   * Rem Collier
   * Jérémy Lemée
   * Stephen Cranefield
   * Alessandro Giugno
   * Danai Vachtsevanou
   * L. Gustavo Nardin
   * Andrei Coman
   * Arthur Casals
   * Artem Zhiganov
   * Ege Korkan
   * Simon Mayer

## Regrets

   * Antoine Zimmermann

**Scribe**: Rem Collier

**Notes from previous meetings**:

[https://github.com/w3c-cg/webagents/pull/112/files](https://github.com/w3c-cg/webagents/pull/112/files)

## Meeting Notes

AC: Reminder about the Poll for scheduling this years meetings:

[https://evento.renater.fr/survey/regular-meetings-w3c-webagents-cg-kihvutjz](https://evento.renater.fr/survey/regular-meetings-w3c-webagents-cg-kihvutjz)

AZ: Based in Serbia, been following CG since December. Working on an AI Agent called Harmonica. Initiated a Metagov WG called Open Facilitation Library

[https://harmonica.chat/](https://harmonica.chat/)

[https://metagov.org/](https://metagov.org/)

[https://metagov.substack.com/p/interoperable-deliberative-tools](https://metagov.substack.com/p/interoperable-deliberative-tools) 

AC: Reviewing last meeting notes. Discussion was on Interoperability Report and Benchmark for Web Agents. 

AC: General Community Group Updates

AC: Mentioned Web and AI Interest Group ([https://www.w3.org/groups/ig/webai/)](https://www.w3.org/groups/ig/webai/)). Co-chaired by Fabien Gandon, who was also one of the initiators of the WebAgents CG. The first meeting was on the 5th of January.  Quite a diverse group. The work we do in the WebAgents CG could provide input.

DV: Mentioned the CFP for the 15th International Workshop on Engineering MAS is now open.

[https://emas-workshop.github.io/2026/cfp/](https://emas-workshop.github.io/2026/cfp/)

DV: Colocated with the 25th International Conference on Autonomous Agents and Multi-Agent Systems, this year held in Cyprus. This year, we have included Agentic and LLM agents.

AC: Next agenda item is related to where we see the CG going over the next year?

AC: Mentioned the Interoperability Report and its relevance.  Due to scope and conciseness, the development of a Primer has been suggested.

AC: Any suggestions?

AC: We are hoping that the report will lead to a roadmap that will help to drive future activities in the group.  One issue is Accountability / Governance.

RC: I think benchmarking would be another good target for 2026

AC: Benchmarks are a challenging target. Possibly the development of playgrounds would be a good first step. Could lead to a plugfest later in the year.

DV: Is there still interest in the other TFs?

RC: We could probably do more with the Use Cases TF, but we need more support.

AC: Use Cases TF was motivated by the TPAC 2023 and reflected the state of play at that stage. The emergence of Agentic/LLM Agents has made this less relevant because agents are now more widely accepted.

AC: Asked Ege about the Managable Affordances TF

Ege: Yes, there is interest, but progress in the WoT CG is slow.

AZ: Would payments be part of this?

AC: was discussed in an Issue

[https://github.com/w3c-cg/webagents/issues/83](https://github.com/w3c-cg/webagents/issues/83)

AC: There is a group in the W3C already focused on payments ([https://www.w3.org/groups/wg/payments/)](https://www.w3.org/groups/wg/payments/)). What we would address directly in the interoperability report are building blocks, such as Identity and verifiable credentials. This is open to discussion,

JL: Manageable Affordances TF would be useful with the evolution of tool use on the web, specifically with the recent developments on Agentic AI being increasingly applied to develop LLM agents interacting with tools and other agents (e.g., with MCP, A2A) on the Web.

AC: To summarise: 1st priority is to wrap up the Interoperability Report;

AC: Reviewing the Interoperability TF report.

[https://deploy-preview-107--w3cwebagentscg.netlify.app/](https://deploy-preview-107--w3cwebagentscg.netlify.app/)

AC: Agent Identification is already in first draft, now focusing on this section (this is 10+ minutes)

AC: Asked for feedback

JL: Question about strings vs. IRIs as identifiers. Which one is better?

AC: Finishing discussion - emphasizing that the discussion should not be opinionated where possible. There is not a good or bad way. All initiatives discussed in the section have strong community support and deal with specific requirements. It's a spectrum of design decisions.

JL: Didn't fully get this - but I understand that the point is that some approaches break the design principles laid down in section 3.

AZ: Do you think it could be useful to look at concrete examples of specific agents / tools? Currently, it is very theoretical and could benefit from some practical context.

AC: Yes, and we are doing this while working on the report. But here, the idea is to capture the core approaches for Web Interoperability, we are not focused primarily on the internal design and implementation of agents - perhaps this could be another activity.

DV: could you explain more

AZ: There are lots of MCP servers and tools. People are using these tools, and it would be good to see how they are used in practice.

[Claude Code]

[https://www.firecrawl.dev/agent](https://www.firecrawl.dev/agent)

[https://github.com/a2aproject/a2a-samples/tree/main/samples/python/agents](https://github.com/a2aproject/a2a-samples/tree/main/samples/python/agents)

DV: It would be good to see this

AC: This is necessary

RC: Supports this view and the group would support this type of activity

EK: IRIs have zero guarantees towards global uniqueness - there are two levels of discussion: (1) format and (2) global uniqueness. IRIs have nothing to do with IRIs. 

AC: asks for clarification

EK: relates to the last sentence

AC: IRIs do have global scope. IRIs defined. by entity that controls the domain.

EK: Does not agree [http://localhost](http://localhost) is an IRI

AC: Referening Web Architecture document and RFC3986

EK: Replies but missed point

AC: IRIs are a universal syntax. - perhaps refer to best practice for IRIs.

EK: A2A provides global uniqueness

-- lost track of conversation

SM: localhost has the same interpretation but can refer to different resources.

AC: The section introduces best practices in the introduction.

EK: Are UUIDs good practice? Should they be recommended.

AC: UUIDs don'thave lookup mechanisms - they are only naming mechanisms.  IRIs have this lookup mechanism.

DV: quick update on profiles. Different standards for agent / tool profiles.

[https://deploy-preview-105--w3cwebagentscg.netlify.app/#foaf-personal-profile-document](https://deploy-preview-105--w3cwebagentscg.netlify.app/#foaf-personal-profile-document)

DV: Please check if the list of profile types is appropriate / complete

AZ: Are we interested in collaborating with the new foundation ([https://aaif.io/)](https://aaif.io/))

AC: Its on the list, we are looking for interested members

AZ: Maybe invite to a seminar

AC: Yes - that's a good plan and on the list once we advance a bit more with the report, also want to reach out to UTCP group
